# DebugThugs

## About Our Project

DebugThungs is a project dedicated to creating a web-based application capable of handling various social media actions in a way that is similar to the popular social media app called 'Discord'. Our project was initially started in early January and our deadline for delivery is the start of April of this year. Our aim is to have a fully functional program that will allow users to create/login to their account and manage their account details after registration. Afterwards, we want users to be able to communicate with other users in servers, groups, and private messages. We also want users to have customization in these servers that will be managed by our permissions system as well as add/remove users from these mediums.

## Project Description

DebugThugs project is a project that will be managed and maintained using the Agile 'Scrum'  methodology. This process will help ensure that any bottlenecks and issues that arise throughout the duration of the project will be resolved in a swift manner by the team and the 'Scrum Master'. Our objective is to deliver a fully functional discord clone by the date of April 12th, 2024. For this app, users will first be required to create an account which will require the user to enter their name (first and last), a username, a password and an email address. If the user is a returning user who already has an account, they will have the option to login. Once the user is in the app, they can create or join channels they are invited to. If a user joins a channel, they will be able to type in chat to discuss with other users and invite other users to the channel. If the user has created their own channel, they will have the same functionalities as joining a channel but will also be the admin of said channel allowing them to do even more. The user will be able to manage the channel by doing things such as removing members and deleting other users messages. Users will also be able to view their friends list where they will be able to send friend requests, manage friend requests (accept or decline) and privately message people on their friends list. Lastly, users will be able to view their profile where they will be able to make changes. These changes involve updating their personal information such as their username, last name, email, password, bio, status and profile picture. We want to include all of our core features that include our front end (webpage, visuals, navigation) as well as the back end (databases, voice/message servers). The Stakeholders of our project include the development team, the Scrum Master, Professor Rodriguez-Perez, the company/server host, as well as the end-users who will be interacting with the project. The development team's role will include planning, completing tasks, and delivering the project. The Scrum Master's role will be to facilitate the weekly Scrum Meetings and ensure that there are no issues in the project's development, and that the Scrum framework is being followed. Professor Rodriguez-Perez will provide the two lectures a week, giving education and insight to the development team as well as guiding/working with the TA/Scrum Master that will have an effect on our weekly Scrum Meetings. The server host will be in charge of hosting the server(s) required for hosting our message database, account database, and voice server. The customers/users will then be the main demographic interacting with the system providing useful insights for the development team and providing feedback for improvements and bug related issues. 

In order for the project to be successful the development team will need to ensure they follow the Scrum framework as well as complete all of the milestones and follow the timeline. There are 5 milestones planned throughout the duration of the project. Milestone 1 (Team Information and Agreement + Planning Framework) will be completed by January 22nd, 2024. Milestone 2 (Project Description and Requirements) will be completed by February 16th, 2024. Milestone 3 (Formal Analysis and Architecture) will be completed by March 8th, 2024, Milestone 4 (Testing and Automation Report) will be completed by March 29th, 2024, and finally Milestone 5 (Final Report and Delivery) will be completed by April 12th, 2024. In order for the project to be successful, the team will need to follow this deadline set out to complete the project on time.


